Hello to Jhal, my name is Vishal.
You are very welcome to me friends.
On our channel, we keep talking about different types of investments
like
staff, mutual funds, real estate, gold,
etc., but we never
talked about where our first
investment should be. Now the
answer to this is hidden in another question
that what is the biggest investment for us?
See, the most important asset for us is
ourselves, our earning potential is
unlimited. That is why it becomes very important
that we take care of ourselves. There is a Hindi
saying that if there is life, there is the world. If we take
care of ourselves, only then will we be
able to reap that earning potential. That is why it is
very important that we
invest first in our body and health. And that is why
our first investment should be in
health insurance. But when we go to
buy health insurance,
many types of questions come to our mind
that what health
insurance do I need today, according to my career size,
according to our age, or
how much should I take total information about. Many
times some  Health
insurance is already available in companies, so people think
that I am fully covered, but is
that cover sufficient? If you
take such an insurance policy, then
what is included in it, what is
exploited, which things should you pay
more attention to and if we should
take a health insurance policy, then it should be the
cheapest policy. If
you take health insurance many times, the
claim gets rejected, sometimes
some pre-existing diseases are not covered,
then what is restoration benefit, what is
top cover, what is super top up cover,
we are going to answer all these questions in this video. Stay tuned to this
video, while subscribing, do
press the bell icon so that you
get notification of the latest video. We will
cover any videocon 45. First of all,
we will know the benefits of health insurance. Secondly, we will
talk about inclusion and exclusion, that is, we will
talk about features, what is controlled in a single policy, what is
accurate
and what things should be kept in mind.  We should take a little more care
on the phone number. We will talk about how much total cover we should take for
individuals
and families and finally we will see a live demo on
how we should buy health insurance. We should take a
little more care of these things.
First of all, let us
talk about the benefits. Here, the
first benefit of health insurance is that
your savings are exhausted.
In times of emergency, suppose
a medical problem arises with you or
your family. The possible medical costs have
increased a lot. Nowadays, the cost of surgery and
its treatment for someone becomes
very high. It
can even go up to Rs 5 lakh, 10 lakh, 15 lakh.
In such a case, your savings will not be exhausted.
You get total cover from health insurance. The
second big advantage is that
our treatment is cashless, which means
you do not have to spend a single penny from your pocket.
Dada Surrender Policy has a
network of hospitals where
you get cancer treatment. The third
advantage is that you can top up your company insurance anytime.
In many companies, you can get Rs 1.5
lakh, 2 lakh, 30 lakh.  You get insurance cover up to Rs. 10000,
but that's not very good; it doesn't cover
everything, so you can top it up as well. The
fourth major advantage is that if
you take health insurance in this, the
premium is lower. Secondly,
most of your coverage is covered because there's
not much chance of pain in this, but over a period of time, the
chances of our disease or any disease
increase. Most of the coverages have
a waiting period for pre-existing de Villiers.
Your
period will already be covered for 3-4 years, so if
any of your wife is in the kitchen, she will be
covered for medical reasons. The fifth advantage is that it
covers all your lifestyle needs nowadays. Nowadays,
most of the jobs have become
desktop jobs. In the era of Carbet,
most people are working online and
working from home, so in such times, it becomes
even more important. The small
advantage of this is that apart from hospitalization, you get
many other benefits
like maternity benefit or
nowadays day care.  You also get access to care facilities. For
many surgeries or treatments,
you do
n't need to be hospitalized. Many
body scanners are also commonplace, and viral diseases are commonplace these days. To
prevent this, a
special policy has been introduced, and its advantage is the
Tech Benefit section. You get
tax deduction for LTD nurses. If
you choose the old policy, there's
not a huge benefit, but it can still be beneficial
for many people. Let's
talk about inclusions and exclusions. The
first feature you should
look for in any policy is the quality of
cashless treatment you're getting at the hospitals near you.
Secondly, check whether the T&
H charges are included in it. If there are
PMP hospitalization charges, the
expenses incurred during your treatment while you were admitted to the hospital will be covered. However, even
before that, you may incur some expenses within the three to seven day period,
such as doctor's consultation,
diagnostic tests, or
physiotherapy.
You may also need to have a physiotherapist consult during hospitalization.
So,
in most policies,
your expenses are covered for three to seven days post-hospitalization,
and in post-hospitalization, your
room expenses are covered for seven to 180 days. You
can also pay a little attention to these things. You should
definitely look for day care facilities. Many
surgeries are done within a single day these days, which means
you do
n't need night admission in the hospital.
Day care facilities are not covered in many policies,
so you should definitely pay attention to this. Along
with this, ambulance services are also covered in
most policies these days. Then you have to
see what kind of coverage you are
getting. Is there any kind of gap in the coverage for
different diseases or treatments? For example, on
maternity benefit,
your policy may have a limit of only Rs 50,000. It is possible that the
expenses may be incurred at the place where you get treatment.  If it
becomes Rs. 75,000 or up to Rs. 1 lakh, then
you have to take some care of it.
Apart from that, sometimes some policies
also have a co-pack option, which means you will also have to pay a little
money. So, suppose there are 10
treatments and 10 percent is co-packed and
locked inside it, then
you will have to pay Rs. 10,000. So, if this co-pack is
not yours, then it is better. Then you should
look for one more thing that how much
room rent is available to you. Look at your policy.
Whatever charges are there when you
go to the hospital, they are directly linked to your room rent
and since your
room rent is the same as in the policy, then you will have to pay that much more.
Therefore, it is
important that you also check if you
refer people in this Tamasic way.
Then another very good benefit is some
positive energy level, which is the
restoration benefit, which means that if whatever
your entire cover was within a year,
he became the bigg boss and a
family member took the entire joint Tilak
for  For example, if there was cover, then
it will be fully restored for the second family member.
Restoration benefits are also available,
and in some policies,
these full compensation benefits are available even during hospitalization.
Another benefit of this kind is the top-up benefit.
Especially if someone is
running a company and
wants to top it up, then it can be a very good benefit.
Suppose you have a cover of Rs 3 lakh, if
you want
this cover for Rs 1 lakh, then you can
take an additional cover of Rs 3 lakh. For example, we call it a top-up cover.
This top-up cover means that if
your benefit of Rs 3 lakh is lost or there is a
blast in the house, then an additional top-up cover will be
available to you. Another very
good benefit of this is if you
take a super top-up cover, in which your
multiple insurances are also included.
What does multiple insurance mean? If a
family member falls ill once and incurs an
expense of Rs 1 lakh, then the other family member will have to bear the expense
again.  If this cover of Rs 3 lakh is taken then
your entire cover will be added. Now
you will get a top-up of Rs 3 lakh again.
We call this super top-up and if
you take this super top-up cover, then all
your existing conditions become continuous, that is,
your waiting period becomes continuous.
This is the meaning of
top-up. The meaning of super top-up is
pre-existing disease and waiting period. If
someone understands it carefully,
because due to this, there were probably most of the
complications in the past and there are even today. To
tackle this, now IRDA has
properly defined this thing, so
whatever diseases you have till 48 months before the day you take the policy, they will be considered as
pre-existing diseases and this will
basically be made for you to take one. So
for example, if someone has diabetes
but he takes polythene in July 2019
and she already has diabetes and is a
pregnant lady, then the cost of her treatment is
fair.  You will be able to clear your insurance
from the insurance company i.e.
from July 2014 but yes definitely
if you have any existing condition, any
part then your premium definitely
increases a bit and this waiting period can be
different for different didis whose illnesses are different,
it generally remains stuck on 02-02-14, along with this you
must keep one more thing in mind that you should
not hide your existing condition,
if you develop it then you should
clearly tell it, if you have diabetes or
any other kind of heart
condition, you must tell it because
if you do not tell it and it is
detected later then your policy
can be completely terminated, apart from this you can also check the
no claim bonus available to you in the policy, it
increases the possibility of reduction in premium in the future, here we
get extra information, so if you
took the policy in the current year and did
not make any kind of claim and you  If you were
paying premiums regularly and you
take that policy and use the quantity, then
next year you may
get an extra cover of 10% or you may
get a report of 10%, then it can be up to
50%, the
maximum no claim bonus can go up to 100%, so do
check the maximum no claim bonus available to you.
Along with this, if you have no claims in any year,
then you also get a preventive health checkup
in a polythene bag, in which
you can get your health checkup done
in the hospital, you get a recommendation for that. If you do
not take any clearance for 2 years, then it is possible that you may
get Rs. 5000 from the dealer, so it
depends on its total cover.
Let us come to our third semester that how much
total health insurance cover should we take. Now
see, it depends on many factors like
what is your age, whether there is a
medical history in the family or not, whether there is an existing
condition or not, your nature.  Of course, there is some
kind of danger in the world
that there are some low levels in it,
but still we will
definitely talk about some low risk. If you are
taking a policy for an individual from the left, then you should
definitely take a minimum free life cover
because at a young age, your chances of having
any existing business are very less
and as you grow a little faster,
you can also increase your risk. Now
secondly, if we talk about family, American
maid, extended family, then for
adults and kids, here you should
definitely take a sandwich OS of Rs 5 to 10 lakhs
and here also there are some home roles, here you
can also take any one of the home roles, like
fifty percent of annual salary, you can also see that
or what is the cost of heart surgery in your city,
if a heart surgery is for a
flat of Rs 4 lakhs in your city, then
you can take a cover of up to Rs 4 lakhs, it can be the same,
if your aspirations are
where you live, then the cost can go up to Rs 8 lakhs.
You can cover the cost of surgery, but
it depends on your income and lifestyle. So, if
we say, a family's cover should be a minimum of Rs
5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh.
Apart from this, you should keep one more thing in mind:
if you have parents who are
fifty plus,
keep them in the insurance category. Otherwise, your
premium will increase significantly. The
premium is decided according to the high cost. So, let's come to
our final settlement: should we
buy health insurance?
First of all, understand that it is not necessary that the
cheapest insurance is the best. As
we
also saw in our last video, in the case of term insurance, the
brand value of the company also becomes very important
when we buy insurance
because here we are buying a promise that the
company will pass our claim
or not. This also becomes very important.
For this, we can check the
death claim ratio
and claim settlement ratio within health insurance.
We will go into details about these soon.  We will know
what happens next and what we can check,
but before that let us talk about 12 more things.
When we buy health insurance,
many times an agent approaches us, a
bank approaches us, then
look there we get a mark that
we are not able to compare the insurance
and it is possible that someone has
vested interest there, you are being
sent that insurance and here he is
getting more commission, so that is why the best
way for us is to
purchase insurance online, for example,
Policy Bazaar is a good website from
where you can purchase insurance,
I too will purchase this insurance many times, so
let me also give you a demo
of Policy Bazaar, as we
went to the website, we saw this health insurance,
different types of health insurance are
available here, normal insurance, family insurance,
senior citizen, now see, there is
also special health insurance to prevent corona, now
we go to a normal health insurance plan,
we enter all our details here,
after that we go to this line here
and from the left also I can select
individual plan here  Let me talk about this only
and I have separately selected an age of 25 years,
continue that,
we select the city, whether
we take the medication or not, so I will
note it here also and see
what kind of products we have, so
look here, mantras are starting from 206,
and for example,
edelweiss is giving you cover of 5 lakhs, so
look, we have compared the creams, here you can
see all the plants,
after this we will go to the features, all the features
that we talked about earlier,
you can check them here,
see, we have got all the highlights, we have got the features,
here you
can see all these things in detail for the Ruh hospital room,
what is the next process and
which are the cashless hospitals, you
can also contact yourself, but I will give it to you
in the description below and in the comment
section, along with this, there are 12 more things before
using online platforms like Quality Bazaar, for example,
if you are not able to understand the quality  If you decide
which one to buy, the executors will
help you. If you face any problem in claim settlement, then the
claim
settlement team will help you.
Nowadays, some hospitals have their claim
settlement team, they help you.
Apart from this, nowadays, if there is a situation of crores, then the
medical treatment that has to be done can also be
tele-medical or medical treatment can be done on video. So, we have
seen this online comparison of how we can do
health insurance. Apart from this, as we
talked about earlier, we should look at a couple of points
about the company.
We can check its condition. One secret that we got from the tour
is the claim settlement ratio, that is, out of the
total claims received by the company,
how many claims has it passed?
If it is
5%, then we can say that
this is a good ratio and we can surrender that policy. The
second and very good one is
their death claim ratio, that is, the total amount
collected by a company is equal to the total premium.
Also,
from the amount collected, how much did he use to pay the total claim?
Look inside it. If
it gets calibrated too much, then that is also bad.
If it does not get calibrated, then it could
also mean that the company does
not have enough money left to pay the claims.
And if the loss becomes 150, then it
could also be that the company is doing a
very good job with you.
Its focus is more on profitability.
So, for its case idea, there is
turmeric juice, but you
can also container 5561 and side and this is the flexibility of two races.
It will depend on what
kind of company it is, what is its brand value.
So, I hope that
after watching the video, most of your health
insurance related doubts will be cleared.
So, if you liked this video, then
definitely like and share it. You can share it
with your friends and family members.
Maybe
they are looking at health insurance and
maybe they also have some doubts. If you have any
suggestions, please subscribe to this video related channel.
Related to this, you can do it in the comment section below.
If you have not subscribed to this channel yet, then
subscribe from below and press the bell icon on your phone so
that you
get the notification of the latest video. See you
in the next informative video. Till then keep
coming and stay happy as always.